AFF-01=Set ID – AFF	contains the number that identifies this transaction.  For the first occurrence of the segment, the sequence number shall be one; for the second occurrence, the sequence number shall be two; etc.
AFF-02=Professional Organization	Contains the official name of the association promoting specific professional interests with which the staff member is affiliated.
AFF-03=Professional Organization Address	Contains the postal address of the professional organization with which the Staff Member is associated.
AFF-04=Professional Organization Affiliation Date Range	Contains the period the staff member started and ended membership in the professional organization
AFF-05=Professional Affiliation Additional Information	Contains miscellaneous additional information related to the staff member's membership in the professional organization.
AL1-01=Set ID - AL1	Contains the number that identifies this transaction.  For the first occurrence of the segment, the sequence number shall be one, for the second occurrence, the sequence number shall be two, etc.
AL1-02=Allergen Type Code	Indicates a general allergy category (drug, food, pollen, etc.).
AL1-03=Allergen Code/Mnemonic/Description	Uniquely identifies a particular allergen.
AL1-04=Allergy Severity Code	Indicates the general severity of the allergy.
AL1-05=Allergy Reaction Code	Identifies the specific allergic reaction that was documented.  This element may conform to some external, standard coding system, or it may conform to a local, largely textual or mnemonic descriptions (e.g., convulsions, sneeze, rash, etc.)
AL1-06=Identification Date	From V2.4 onward, this field has been retained for backward compatibility only.  See IAM 11 and 13.  This field contains the date that the allergy was identified.
BLG-01=When to Charge	Specifies when to charge for the ordered service.
BLG-02=Charge Type	Identifies someone or something other than the patient to be billed for this service.
BLG-03=Account ID	Identifies the account to be billed.
BLG-04=Charge Type Reason	Explains the choice of and provides the clinical rationale for the selected charge type
EVN-01=Event Type Code	
EVN-02=Recorded Date/Time 	Most systems will default to the system date/time when the transaction was entered, but they should also permit an override.
EVN-03=Date/Time Planned Event	This field contains the date/time that the event is planned.
EVN-04=Event Reason Code	This field contains the reason for this event.
EVN-05=Operator ID	This field identifies the individual responsible for triggering the event.
EVN-06=Event Occurred	This field contains the date/time that the event actually occurred.
EVN-07=Event Facility	This field identifies the actual facility where the event occurred as differentiated from the sending facility
IAM-01=Set ID - IAM	Contains the number that identifies this transaction.  For the first occurrence of the segment, the sequence number shall be one, for the second occurrence, the sequence number shall be two, etc.
IAM-02=Allergen Type Code	Indicates a general allergy category (drug, food, pollen, etc.).
IAM-03=Allergen Code/Mnemonic/Description	Uniquely identifies a particular allergen.
IAM-04=Allergy Severity Code	Indicates the general severity of the allergy.
IAM-05=Allergy Reaction Code	Identifies the specific allergic reaction that was documented.  This element may conform to some external, standard coding system, or it may conform to a local, largely textual or mnemonic descriptions (e.g., convulsions, sneeze, rash, etc.)
IAM-06=Allergy Action Code	Defines the status of the record.  It allows allergy messages to be sent to delete or update previously sent allergy messages.
IAM-07=Allergy Unique Identifier	Contains a value that uniquely identifies a single allergy for a person
IAM-08=Action Reason	Contains the reason for the action indicated in the IAM-6 - Allergy Action Code field.
IAM-09=Sensitivity to Causative Agent Code	Contains the reason why the patient should not be exposed to a substance.
IAM-10=Allergen Group Code/Mnemonic/Description	Uniquely identifies an allergen group when both a detailed allergy and group level need to be communicated.  In cases where systems want to communicate both a specific drug allergy and the group of drugs to which the specific drug belongs (i.e., Bactrim and Sulfa drugs; Ceclor and Penicillins/Cephalosporins) then the specific drug allergy is [in reactant] and the group level is [in reactantGroup].  However, if only a group level is being communicated, then it can be sent in [reactant] as the primary identifier of the allergy.
IAM-11=Onset Date	Contains the actual date of the first reaction.
IAM-12=Onset Date Text	Contains a text description of the time period of the first reaction when an exact date is not known (e.g., adolescence, childhood, spring 1990).
IAM-13=Reported Date/Time	Contains the date/time the allergy was reported to a caregiver.
IAM-14=Reported By	Contains the name of the person reporting the allergy to a caregiver at the time reported in IAM-13 - Reported Date/Time.
IAM-15=Relationship to Patient Code	Contains the personal relationship that the person reporting the allergy has to the patient.
IAM-16=Alert Device Code	Describes any type of allergy alert device the patient may be carrying or wearing.
IAM-17=Allergy Clinical Status Code	Indicates the verification status for the allergy
IAM-18=Statused by Person	Identifies the provider who assigned the clinical status to the allergy
IAM-19=Statused by Organization	Contains the name of the organization providing the update to the allergy
IAM-20=Statused at Date/Time	The date and time that this allergy was last statused by the IAM-18 - Statused by Person in the IAM-19 - Statused by Organization.
IAM-21=Inactivated by Person	Identifies the user that inactivated the record entry about the patient’s allergy
IAM-22=Inactivated Date/Time	The date and time that this allergy was inactivated by the IAM-21 Inactivated by Person.
IAM-23=Initially Recorded by Person	Identifies the user that created the entry in the record stating the allergy
IAM-24=Initially Recorded Date/Time	The date and time that this allergy entry was created by the IAM-23 Created by Person.
IAM-25=Modified by Person	Identifies the user that modified the allergy
IAM-26=Modified Date/Time	The date and time that this allergy was modified by the IAM-25 Modified by Person.
IAM-27=Clinician Identified Code	Identifies the clinician entered description associated to a particular allergen.
IAM-28=Initially Recorded by Organization	Contains the name of the organization that initially recorded the allergy
IAM-29=Modified by Organization	Contains the name of the organization that modified the allergy
IAM-30=Inactivated by Organization	Contains the name of the organization that inactivated the allergy
IAR-01=Allergy Reaction Code	Identifies the specific allergic reaction that was documented.
IAR-02=Allergy Severity Code	Indicates the general severity of the allergy.
IAR-03=Sensitivity to Causative Agent Code	Contains the reason why the patient should not be exposed to a substance.
IAR-04=Management	Contains a textual description of the actions that were performed in response to the reaction.
IN1-01=Set ID - IN1	Contains the number that identifies this transaction.  For the first occurrence the sequence number shall be 1, for the second occurrence it shall be 2, etc.
IN1-02=Health Plan ID	Contains a unique identifier for the insurance plan.
IN1-03=Insurance Company ID	Contains unique identifiers for the insurance company.
IN1-04=Insurance Company Name	Contains the name of the insurance company.
IN1-05=Insurance Company Address	Contains the address of the insurance company.
IN1-06=Insurance Co Contact Person	Contains the name of the person who should be contacted at the insurance company.
IN1-07=Insurance Co Phone Number	Contains the phone number of the insurance company.
IN1-08=Group Number	Contains the group number of the insured’s insurance.
IN1-09=Group Name	Contains the group name of the insured’s insurance.
IN1-10=Insured’s Group Emp ID	Holds the group employer ID for the insured’s insurance.
IN1-11=Insured’s Group Emp Name	Contains the name of the employer that provides the employee’s insurance.
IN1-12=Plan Effective Date	Contains the date that the insurance goes into effect.
IN1-13=Plan Expiration Date	Indicates the last date of service that the insurance will cover or be responsible for.
IN1-14=Authorization Information	Based on the type of insurance, some coverage plans require that an authorization number or code be obtained prior to all non-emergency admissions, and within 48 hours of an emergency admission.  Insurance billing would not be permitted without this number.  The date and source of authorization are the components of this field.
IN1-15=Plan Type	Contains the coding structure that identifies the various plan types, for example, Medicare, Medicaid, Blue Cross, HMO, etc.
IN1-16=Name Of Insured	Contains the name of the insured person.  The insured is the person who has an agreement with the insurance company to provide healthcare services to persons covered by the insurance policy.
IN1-17=Insured’s Relationship To Patient	Indicates the insured’s relationship to the patient.
IN1-18=Insured’s Date Of Birth	Contains the date of birth of the insured.
IN1-19=Insured’s Address	Contains the address of the insured person.  The insured is the person who has an agreement with the insurance company to provide healthcare services to persons covered by an insurance policy.  Multiple addresses for the same insured person may be in this field.
IN1-20=Assignment Of Benefits	Indicates whether the insured agreed to assign the insurance benefits to the healthcare provider.  If so, the insurance will pay the provider directly.
IN1-21=Coordination Of Benefits	Indicates whether this insurance works in conjunction with other insurance plans, or if it provides independent coverage and payment of benefits regardless of other insurance that might be available to the patient.
IN1-22=Coord Of Ben. Priority	If the insurance works in conjunction with other insurance plans, this field contains priority sequence.  Values are: 1, 2, 3, etc.
IN1-23=Notice Of Admission Flag	Indicates whether the insurance company requires a written notice of admission from the healthcare provider.
IN1-24=Notice Of Admission Date	If a notice is required, this field indicates the date that it was sent.
IN1-25=Report Of Eligibility Flag	Indicates whether this insurance carrier sends a report that indicates that the patient is eligible for benefits and whether it identifies those benefits.
IN1-26=Report Of Eligibility Date	Indicates whether a report of eligibility (ROE) was received, and also indicates the date that it was received.
IN1-27=Release Information Code	Indicates whether the healthcare provider can release information about the patient, and what information can be released.
IN1-28=Pre-Admit Cert (PAC)	Contains the pre admission certification code.  If the admission must be certified before the admission, this is the code associated with the admission.
IN1-29=Verification Date/Time	The date/time that the healthcare provider verified that the patient has the indicated benefits.
IN1-30=Verification By	The person who verified the benefits.
IN1-31=Type Of Agreement Code	This field is used to further identify an insurance plan.
IN1-32=Billing Status	
IN1-33=Lifetime Reserve Days	
IN1-34=Delay Before L.R. Day	
IN1-35=Company Plan Code	
IN1-36=Policy Number	
IN1-37=Policy Deductible	
IN1-38=Policy Limit - Amount	
IN1-39=Policy Limit - Days	
IN1-40=Room Rate - Semi-Private	
IN1-41=Room Rate - Private	
IN1-42=Insured’s Employment Status	Holds the employment status of the insured.
IN1-43=Insured’s Administrative Sex	Contains the gender of the insured.
IN1-44=Insured’s Employer’s Address	Contains the address of the insured employee’s employer.  Multiple addresses for the same employer may be sent in this field.
IN1-45=Verification Status	
IN1-46=Prior Insurance Plan ID	
IN1-47=Coverage Type	
IN1-48=Handicap 	
IN1-49=Insured’s ID Number	Contains a healthcare institution’s identifiers for the insured.
IN1-50=Signature Code	
IN1-51=Signature Code Date	
IN1-52=Insured’s Birth Place	The description of the insured’s birth place, for example “St. Francis Community Hospital of Lower South Side.”
IN1-53=VIP Indicator	
IN1-54=External Health Plan Identifiers	
IN1-55=Insurance Action Code	
NK1-01=Set ID - NK1	The number that identifies this transaction.
NK1-02=Name	One or more of the names of the next of kin or associated party. 
NK1-03=Relationship	The actual personal relationship that the next of kin/associated party has to the patient.
NK1-04=Address	The address of the next of kin/associated party.
NK1-05=Phone Number	The telephone number of the next of kin/associated party.
NK1-06=Business Phone Number	The business telephone number of the next of kin/associated party.
NK1-07=Contact Role	Indicates the specific relationship role....  This field specifies the role that the next of kin/associated parties plays with regard to the patient.
NK1-08=Start Date	The start date of the contact role.
NK1-09=End Date	The end date of the contact role.
NK1-10=Next of Kin / Associated Parties Job Title	The title of the next of kin/associated parties at their place of employment.  However, if the contact role is the patient's employer, this field contains the job title of the patient at their place of employment.
NK1-11=Next of Kin / Associated Parties Job Code/Class	The employer's job code and the employee classification used for the next of kin/associated parties at their place of employment. However, if the contact role is the patient's employer, this field contains the job code/class of the patient at their place of employment. 
NK1-12=Next of Kin / Associated Parties Employee Number	The number that the employer assigns to the employee that is acting as next of kin/associated parties. However, if the contact role is the patient's employer, this field contains the employee number of the patient at their place of employment.
NK1-13=Organization Name - NK1	The name of the organization that serves as a next of kin/associated party or as the next of kin of the patient.  This field may also be used to communicate the name of the organization at which the associated party works.
NK1-14=Marital Status	Contains the next of kin/associated party's marital status.
NK1-15=Administrative Sex	The next of kin/associated party's sex.
NK1-16=Date/Time of Birth	The next of kin/associated party's birth date and time.
NK1-17=Living Dependency	Identifies specific living conditions (e.g., spouse dependent on patient, walk-up) that are relevant to an evaluation of the patient's healthcare needs.  This information can be used for discharge planning.  Examples might include Spouse Dependent, Medical Supervision Required, Small Children Dependent.
NK1-18=Ambulatory Status	The transient rate of mobility for the next of kin/associated party.
NK1-19=Citizenship	Identif(ies) the next of kin/associated party's citizenship.
NK1-20=Primary Language	The next of kin/associated party's primary speaking language.
NK1-21=Living Arrangement	The situation that the associated party lives in at his/her residential address.
NK1-22=Publicity Code	Indicates what level of publicity is allowed (e.g., No Publicity, Family Only) for the next of kin/associated party. 
NK1-23=Protection Indicator	Identifies that next of kin/associated party's protection that determines, in turn, whether access to information about this person should be kept from users who do not have adequate authority.
NK1-24=Student Indicator	Identifies whether the next of kin/associated party is currently a student or not, and whether the next of kin/associated party is a full- or a part-time student.  This field does not indicate the degree (high school, college) of the student or the field of study.
NK1-25=Religion	The type of religion practiced by the next of kin/associated party.
NK1-26=Mother's Maiden Name	The maiden name of the next of kin/associated party's mother.
NK1-27=Nationality	The nation or national group to which the next of kin/associated party belongs.  This information may be different than the person's citizenship in countries in which multiple nationalities are recognized (e.g., Spain: Basque, Catalan, etc.).
NK1-28=Ethnic Group	The next of kin/associated party's ethnic group.
NK1-29=Contact Reason	Identifies how the contact should be used (e.g., contact employer if patient is unable to work).
NK1-30=Contact Person's Name	Contains one or more of the names of the person to contact, depending on the value of the relationship defined in NK1-3 - Relationship.  This field is typically needed when the NK1 is an organization.
NK1-31=Contact Person's Telephone Number	The telephone numbers of the contact person depending on the value of the relationship defined in NK1-3 - Relationship.  This field is typically needed when the NK1 is an organization.
NK1-32=Contact Person's Address	The addresses of the contact person depending on the value of the relationship defined in NK1-3 - Relationship.  This field is typically used when the NK1 is an organization.
NK1-33=Next of Kin/Associated Party's Identifiers	The identifiers for the next of kin/associated party, for example, Social Security Number, driver's license, etc.
NK1-34=Job Status	The next of kin/associated party's job status.
NK1-35=Race	The race of the next of kin/associated party.
NK1-36=Handicap	Describes an associated party's disability.
NK1-37=Contact Person Social Security Number	In the US, this field contains the contact person's social security number.  This number may also be a RR retirement number.
NK1-38=Next of Kin Birth Place	The location of the next-of-kin's birth
NK1-39=VIP Indicator	Identifies the type of VIP for the next-of-kin.
NK1-40=Next of Kin Telecommunication Information	The next of kin’s telecommunication contact information.
NK1-41=Contact Person's Telecommunication Information	The contact person’s telecommunication contact information.
OBR-01=Set ID – OBR	For the first order transmitted, the sequence number shall be 1; for the second order, it shall be 2; and so on.
OBR-02=Placer Order Number	This field is identical to ORC-2-Placer Order Number….  It identifies an order uniquely among all orders from a particular ordering application.
OBR-03=Filler Order Number	This field is the order number associated with the filling application. This is a permanent identifier for an order and its associated observations.
OBR-04=Universal Service Identifier	Contains the identifier code for the requested observation/test/battery.
OBR-05=Priority	n/a - deprecated
OBR-06=Requested Date/Time	n/a - deprecated
OBR-07=Observation Date/Time #	The clinically relevant date/time of the observation.  In the case of observations taken directly from a subject, it is the actual date and time the observation was obtained.  In the case of a specimen associated study, this field shall represent the date and time the specimen was collected or obtained.
OBR-08=Observation End Date/Time #	Contains the end date and time of a study or timed specimen collection.
OBR-09=Collection Volume *	The volume of a specimen.
OBR-10=Collector Identifier *	Identifies the person, department, or facility that collected the specimen.
OBR-11=Specimen Action Code *	Identifies the action to be taken with respect to the specimens that accompany or precede this order.
OBR-12=Danger Code	Contains the code and/or text indicating any known or suspected patient or specimen hazards, e.g., patient with active tuberculosis or blood from a hepatitis patient.
OBR-13=Relevant Clinical Information	Contains the additional clinical information about the patient or specimen.  This field is used to report the suspected diagnosis and clinical findings on requests for interpreted diagnostic studies.  Examples include reporting the amount of inspired carbon dioxide for blood gasses, the point in the menstrual cycle for cervical pap tests, and other conditions that influence test interpretations.
OBR-14=Specimen Received Date/Time *	n/a - deprecated
OBR-15=Specimen Source	n/a - deprecated
OBR-16=Ordering Provider	Identifies the provider who ordered the test.
OBR-17=Order Callback Phone Number	Contains the telephone number for reporting a status or a result
OBR-18=Placer Field 1	Text sent by the placer will be returned with the results.
OBR-19=Placer Field 2	This field is similar to placer field #1.
OBR-20=Filler Field 1 +	This field is definable for any use by the filler (diagnostic service).
OBR-21=Filler Field 2 +	This field is similar to filler field #1.
OBR-22=Results Rpt/Status Chng – Date/Time +	Specifies the date/time when the results were reported or status changed.  This conditional field is required whenever [Report Status] is valued.  This field is used to indicate the date and time that the results are composed into a report and released, or that [Healthcare Order status] is entered or changed.
OBR-23=Charge to Practice +	This field is the charge to the ordering entity for the studies performed when applicable. The first component is a dollar amount when known by the filler.  The second is a charge code when known by the filler (results only).
OBR-24=Diagnostic Serv Sect ID	Represents "the section of the diagnostic service where the observation was performed.  If the study was performed by an outside service, the identification of that service should be recorded here
OBR-25=Result Status +	Contains the status of results for this order.
OBR-26=Parent Result +	This field is defined to make it available for other types of linkages (e.g., toxicology).  This important information, together with the information in OBR-29 or OBR-57, uniquely identifies the parent result's OBX segment related to this order.
OBR-27=Quantity/Timing	n/a - deprecated
OBR-28=Result Copies To	Identifies the people who are to receive copies of the results.
OBR-29=Parent  	This field relates a child to its parent when a parent child relationship exists.
OBR-30=Transportation Mode	Identifies how (or whether) to transport a patient, when applicable.
OBR-31=Reason for Study	This is required for some studies to obtain proper reimbursement.
OBR-32=Principal Result Interpreter +	Identifies the physician or other clinician who interpreted the observation and is responsible for the report content.
OBR-33=Assistant Result Interpreter + 	Identifies the clinical observer who assisted with the interpretation of this study.
OBR-34=Technician +	This field identifies the performing technician.
OBR-35=Transcriptionist +	This field identifies the report transcriber.
OBR-36=Scheduled Date/Time +	The date/time the filler scheduled an observation, when applicable....  This is a result of a request to schedule a particular test and provides a way to inform the placer of the date/time a study is scheduled (result only).
OBR-37=Number of Sample Containers *	Identifies the number of containers for a given sample.  For sample receipt verification purposes; may be different from the total number of samples which accompany the order.
OBR-38=Transport Logistics of Collected Sample *	the means by which a sample reaches the diagnostic service provider.  This information is to aid the lab in scheduling or interpretation of results.  Possible answers: routine transport van, public postal service, etc.
OBR-39=Collector's Comment *	This field is for reporting additional comments related to the sample.
OBR-40=Transport Arrangement Responsibility	Who is responsible for arranging transport to the planned diagnostic service.  Examples: Requester, Provider, Patient.
OBR-41=Transport Arranged	Whether transport arrangements are known to have been made.
OBR-42=Escort Required	Indicates whether the patient needs to be escorted to the diagnostic service department.
OBR-43=Planned Patient Transport Comment	Comments on special requirements for the transport of the patient to the diagnostic service department.
OBR-44=Procedure Code	Contains a unique identifier assigned to the procedure, if any, associated with the charge.
OBR-45=Procedure Code Modifier	Contains the procedure code modifier to the procedure code reported in OBR-44-procedure code, when applicable....  Multiple modifiers may be reported....
OBR-46=Placer Supplemental Service Information	Contains supplemental service information sent from the placer system to the filler system for the universal procedure code reported in OBR-4 Universal Service ID.  This field will be used to provide ordering information detail that is not available in other specific fields in the OBR segment.
OBR-47=Filler Supplemental Service Information	Contains supplemental service information sent from the filler system to the placer system for the procedure code reported in OBR-4 Universal Service ID.  This field will be used to report ordering information detail that is not available in other specific fields in the OBR segment.  Typically it will reflect the same information as was sent to the filler system in OBR-46-Placer supplemental service information unless the order was modified, in which case the filler system will report what was actually performed using this field....
OBR-48=Medically Necessary Duplicate Procedure Reason	This field is used to document why the procedure found in OBR-44 - Procedure Code is a duplicate of one ordered/charged previously for the same patient within the same date of service and has been determined to be medically necessary.
OBR-49=Result Handling	Information regarding the handling of the result.  For example, an order may specify that the result (e.g., an x-ray film) should be given to the patient for return to the requestor....  If this field is not populated then routine handling is implied.
OBR-50=Parent Universal Service Identifier	Contains the identifier code for the parent order, as identified in ORC-8 Parent and/or OBR-29 Parent (if present), which caused this observation/test/battery to be performed.
OBR-51=Observation Group ID	
OBR-52=Parent Observation Group ID	
OBR-53=Alternate Placer Order Number	This field enables a shorter number to be communicated that is unique within other identifiers.
OBX-01=Set ID – OBX	Contains the sequence number. 
OBX-02=Value Type	Defines the data type of OBX-5, Observation Value.
OBX-03=Observation Identifier	Contains a unique identifier for the observation....  In most systems the identifier will point to a master observation table that will provide other attributes of the observation that may be used by the receiving system to process the observations it receives.
OBX-04=Observation Sub-ID	This field is used to distinguish between multiple OBX segments with the same observation ID organized under one OBR.
OBX-05=Observation Value	Contains the value observed by the observation producer....  It is not a required field because some systems will report only the Interpretation Codes.... This field may repeat for multipart, single answer results.
OBX-06=Units	Contains the units of measurement for the value in OBX-5, Observation Value.
OBX-07=References Range	When the observation quantifies the amount of a toxic substance, then the upper limit of the range identifies the toxic limit.  If the observation quantifies a drug, the lower limits identify the lower therapeutic bounds and the upper limits represent the upper therapeutic bounds above which toxic side effects are common.
OBX-08=Interpretation Codes	One or more codes specifying a categorical assessment of the observation value, such as "Normal", "Abnormal", "Positive", "Negative", "Resistant", "Susceptible", etc....
OBX-09=Probability	Contains the probability of a result being true for results with categorical values.  It mainly applies to discrete coded results.  It is a decimal number ... between 0 and 1, inclusive.
OBX-10=Nature of Abnormal Test	Contains the nature of the abnormal test....  As many of the codes as apply may be included
OBX-11=Observation Result Status	Contains the observation result status.... This field reflects the current completion status of the results for one Observation Identifier....
OBX-12=Effective Date of Reference Range	Contains the date (and, optionally, the time) on which the values in OBX-7-reference range went into effect....
OBX-13=User Defined Access Checks	This field permits the producer to record results-dependent codes for classifying the observation at the receiving system.  This field should be needed only rarely…
OBX-14=Date/Time of the Observation	This field is required in two circumstances.  The first is when the observations reported beneath one report header have different dates/times.  This could occur in the case of queries, timed test sequences, or clearance studies where one measurement within a battery may have a different time than another measurement....  The observation date-time is the physiologically relevant date-time or the closest approximation to that date-time.  In the case of tests performed on specimens, the relevant date-time is the specimen’s collection date-time.  In the case of observations taken directly on the patient (e.g., X-ray images, history and physical), the observation date-time is the date-time that the observation was performed.
OBX-15=Producer's ID	Contains a unique identifier of the responsible producing service.  It should be reported explicitly when the test results are produced at outside laboratories, for example.  When this field is null, the receiving system assumes that the observations were produced by the sending organization.  This information supports CLIA regulations in the US....
OBX-16=Responsible Observer	Contains the identifier of the individual directly responsible for the observation (i.e., the person who either performed or verified it).  In a nursing service, the observer is usually the professional who performed the observation (e.g., took the blood pressure).  In a laboratory, the observer is the technician who performed or verified the analysis....
OBX-17=Observation Method	The method or procedure by which an observation was obtained when the sending system wishes to distinguish among one measurement obtained by different methods and the distinction is not implicit in the test ID.  Chemistry laboratories do not usually distinguish between two different methods used to measure a given serum constituent (e.g., serum potassium) as part of the test name....
OBX-18=Equipment Instance Identifier	Identifies the Equipment Instance (e.g., Analyzer, Analyzer module, group of Analyzers, etc.) responsible for the production of the observation....
OBX-19=Date/Time of the Analysis	The time stamp associated with generation of the analytical result by the instrument specified in [the deviceInstance]
OBX-20=Observation Site	Contains the body site(s) where the measurement being reported was obtained.   This field should not be used for a specimen source or specimen collection site.  This information is of particular importance if the clinical meaning of a value is modified either directly by the site (for example, is the temperature central or peripheral?) or if the site of one measurement impacts the value of another measurement (for example, is the finger SpO2 probe on the same arm as the NIBP cuff?).  In most cases these observations are performed directly upon the patient and do not involve a specimen.
OBX-21=Observation Instance Identifier	Contains a unique identifier for this observation.
OBX-22=Mood Code	Identifies the actuality of the observation (e.g., intent, request, promise, event).
OBX-23=Performing Organization Name	Contains the name of the organization/service responsible for performing the service.
OBX-24=Performing Organization Address	Contains the address of the organization/service responsible for performing the service.
OBX-25=Performing Organization Medical Director	Contains the medical director of the organization/service responsible for performing the service.  For labs, this field specifies the medical director of the laboratory that produced the test result described in this OBX segment.  This field is different than OBX-16 in that OBX-16 identifies the individual who performed the lab test (made the observation) whereas this field identifies the individual who is the medical director of the organization responsible for the result.  It should be reported explicitly when the test results are produced at outside laboratories, for example.  This information supports CLIA regulations in the US.
OBX-26=Patient Results Release Category	Contains instructions on whether to share the results with the patient, and if so how.
OBX-27=Root Cause	Indicates the root cause for the reissue of a previously released lab report.  This element is used in conjunction with OBX-11 Observation Result Status to define the root cause for a reissued laboratory report in the case of a corrected, amended, appended, or revised report.
OBX-28=User-Defined Coded Element	contains user defined information which is intended to be used internally within an organization, particularly for processing type information.
ORC-01=Order Control	Determines the function of the order segment.  Refer to HL7 Table 0119 – Order Control Codes in Chapter 2C for valid entries.
ORC-02=Placer Order Number	This field is the placer application's order number.
ORC-03=Filler Order Number	This field is the order number associated with the filling application....
ORC-04=Placer Group Number	Contains a unique identifier for the Placer Group as referenced by the Placer application, the Filler application, or both.
ORC-05=Order Status	This field specifies the status of an order.
ORC-06=Response Flag	This field allows the placer (sending) application to determine the amount of information to be returned from the filler.
ORC-07=Quantity/Timing	This field is retained for backward compatibility only
ORC-08=Parent	This field relates a child to its parent when a parent child relationship exists.
ORC-09=Date/Time of Transaction	This field contains the date and time of the event that initiated the current transaction as reflected in ORC-1 Order Control Code.
ORC-10=Entered By	This field contains the identity of the person who actually keyed the request into the application. Note that this refers to the current transaction as reflected in ORC-1 Order Control Code.   It provides an audit trail in case the request is entered incorrectly and the ancillary department needs to clarify the request.  By local agreement, either the ID number or name component may be omitted.
ORC-11=Verified By	This field contains the identity of the person who verified the accuracy of the entered request. Note that this refers to the current transaction as reflected in ORC-1 Order Control Code. It is used in cases where the request is entered by a technician and needs to be verified by a higher authority (e.g., a nurse).  By local agreement, either the ID number or name component may be omitted.
ORC-12=Ordering Provider	This field contains the identity of the person who is responsible for creating the request (i.e., ordering physician).
ORC-13=Enterer's Location	This field specifies the location (e.g., nurse station, ancillary service location, clinic, floor) where the person who entered the request was physically located when the order was entered….
ORC-14=Call Back Phone Number	This field contains the telephone number to call for clarification of a request or other information regarding the order.
ORC-15=Order Effective Date/Time	This field contains the date/time that the changes to the request took effect or are supposed to take effect….
ORC-16=Order Control Code Reason	This field contains the explanation (either in coded or text form) of the reason for the order event described by the order control code 
ORC-17=Entering Organization	This field identifies the organization that the enterer belonged to at the time he/she enters/maintains the order, such as medical group or department.
ORC-18=Entering Device	This field identifies the physical device (terminal, PC) used to enter the order.
ORC-19=Action By	This field contains the identity of the person who initiated the event represented by the corresponding order control code.  For example, if the order control code is CA (cancel order request), this field represents the person who requested the order cancellation.  This person is typically a care provider but may not always be the same as ORC-12 ordering provider
ORC-20=Advanced Beneficiary Notice Code	This field indicates the status of the patient's or the patient's representative's consent for responsibility to pay for potentially uninsured services. This element is introduced to satisfy CMS Medical Necessity requirements for outpatient services. This element indicates (a) whether the associated diagnosis codes for the service are subject to medical necessity procedures, (b) whether, for this type of service, the patient has been informed that they may be responsible for payment for the service, and (c) whether the patient agrees to be billed for this service
ORC-21=Ordering Facility Name	This field contains the name of the facility placing the order.
ORC-22=Ordering Facility Address	This field contains the address of the facility placing the order.
ORC-23=Ordering Facility Phone Number	This field contains the telephone number of the facility placing the order.
ORC-24=Ordering Provider Address	This field contains the address of the care provider requesting the order.
ORC-25=Order Status Modifier	This field is a modifier or refiner of the ORC-5-Order status field. This field may be used to provide additional levels of specificity or additional information for the defined order status codes….
ORC-26=Advanced Beneficiary Notice Override Reason	This field contains the reason why the patient did not sign an Advanced Beneficiary Notice.
ORC-27=Filler's Expected Availability Date/Time	This field specifies the date/time the filler expects the services to be available.  For example when a prescription is ready for pickup or when a supply will be sent or picked up, or for when a laboratory result is expected to be available. 
ORC-28=Confidentiality Code	This field contains information about the level of security and/or sensitivity surrounding the order (e.g., highly sensitive, not sensitive, sensitive, etc.).
ORC-29=Order Type	This field indicates whether the order is to be executed in an inpatient setting or an outpatient setting.
ORC-30=Enterer Authorization Mode	This field indicates the form of authorization a recorder had from the responsible practitioner to create or change an order.
ORC-31=Parent Universal Service Identifier	Contains the identifier code for the parent order which caused this reflex observation/test/battery to be performed.
ORC-32=Advanced Beneficiary Notice Date	Contains the date the patient gave consent to pay for potentially uninsured services or the date that the Advanced Beneficiary Notice Code was collected.
ORC-33=Alternate Placer Order Number	This field enables a shorter number to be communicated that is unique within other identifiers.
ORC-34=Order Document	Refers to document carried in OMX message
ORC-35=Order Document Reference 	References document carried in OMX message.
ORC-36=Order Workflow Profile	Needs definition.
PD1-01=Living Dependency	Identifies specific living conditions (e.g., spouse dependent on patient, walk-up) that are relevant to an evaluation of the patient's healthcare needs.  This information can be used for discharge planning. This field repeats because, for example, "spouse dependent" and "medical supervision required" can apply at the same time.
PD1-02=Living Arrangement	Identifies the situation in which the patient lives at his residential address.  Examples might include Alone, Family, Relatives, Institution, etc.
PD1-03=Patient Primary Facility	The name and identifier that specifies the "primary care" healthcare facility selected by the patient at the time of enrolment in an HMO Insurance Plan.
PD1-04=Patient Primary Care Provider Name & ID No.	(deprecated)
PD1-05=Student Indicator	Indicates if the patient is currently a student or not, and whether the patient is a full-time or a part-time student.  This field does not indicate the student's degree level (high school, college, elementary) or the student's field of study (accounting, engineering, etc.).
PD1-06=Handicap	Indicates the nature of the patient's permanent handicapped condition (e.g., deaf, blind).  A handicapped condition is defined as a physical or mental disability that is permanent.
PD1-07=Living Will Code	Indicates whether or not the patient has a living will and, if so, whether a copy of the living will is on file at the healthcare facility.  If the patient does not have a living will, the value of this field indicates whether the patient was provided information on living wills.
PD1-08=Organ Donor Code	Indicates whether the patient wants to donate his/her organs and whether an organ donor card or similar documentation is on file with the healthcare organization.
PD1-09=Separate Bill	Specifies that charges for this patient are to be billed separately from other patient bills with the same guarantor.  (This bill is now a patient bill rather than a guarantor bill.)
PD1-10=Duplicate Patient	indicates that a patient is the same as, or a duplicate of, another patient found on the sending system.  The intent is to be informational only and no action is required by the receiver.
PD1-11=Publicity Code	Contains a user-defined code indicating what level of publicity is allowed (e.g., No Publicity, Family Only) for the patient.
PD1-12=Protection Indicator	(deprecated - use ARV segment)
PD1-13=Protection Indicator Effective Date	(deprecated - use ARV segment)
PD1-14=Place of Worship	The patient's place of worship.  For example, the patient attends the First Baptist Church of Atlanta.
PD1-15=Advance Directive Code	Indicates the patient's instructions to the healthcare facility.
PD1-16=Immunization Registry Status	Identifies the immunization registry status of the patient.
PD1-17=Immunization Registry Status Effective Date	Indicates the effective date for the immunization registry status reported in PD1-16 - Immunization Registry Status.
PD1-18=Publicity Code Effective Date	The effective date for PD1-11 - Publicity Code.
PD1-19=Military Branch	This field is defined by CMS or other regulatory agencies.
PD1-20=Military Rank/Grade	Identifies the military rank/grade of the patient.
PD1-21=Military Status	This field is defined by CMS or other regulatory agencies.
PD1-22=Advance Directive Last Verified Date	The date that all the advance directives held in PD1-15 - Advance Directive Code were last validated.
PID-01=Set ID - PID	Contains the number that identifies this transaction.  For the first occurrence of the segment, the sequence number shall be one, for the second occurrence, the sequence number shall be two, etc.
PID-02=Patient ID	(n/a - deprecated)
PID-03=Patient Identifier List	Contains the list of identifiers (one or more) used by the healthcare facility to uniquely identify a patient (e.g., medical record number, billing number, birth registry, national unique individual identifier, etc.).
PID-04=Alternate Patient ID - PID	(n/a - deprecated)
PID-05=Patient Name	Contains one or more of the names of the patient....
PID-06=Mother's Maiden Name	Contains the family name under which the mother was born (i.e., before marriage). It is used to distinguish between patients with the same last name.
PID-07=Date/Time of Birth	Contains the patient's date and time of birth.
PID-08=Administrative Sex	Contains the patient's sex.
PID-09=Patient Alias	(n/a - deprecated)
PID-10=Race	This field refers to the patient's race.
PID-11=Patient Address	Contains the address of the patient. Multiple addresses for the same person may be sent.
PID-12=County Code	(n/a - deprecated)
PID-13=Phone Number - Home	Contains the patient's personal phone numbers.
PID-14=Phone Number - Business	Contains the patient's business telephone numbers.
PID-15=Primary Language	Contains the patient's primary language.  HL7 recommends using ISO table 639
PID-16=Marital Status	Contains the patient's marital (civil) status.
PID-17=Religion	Contains the patient's religion.
PID-18=Patient Account Number	Contains the patient account number assigned by accounting to which all charges, payments, etc., are recorded.  It is used to identify the patient's account.
PID-19=SSN Number - Patient	(n/a - deprecated)
PID-20=Driver's License Number - Patient	(n/a - deprecated)
PID-21=Mother's Identifier	This field is used, for example, as a link field for newborns.  Typically a patient ID or account number may be used.  This field can contain multiple identifiers for the same mother.
PID-22=Ethnic Group	This field further defines the patient's ancestry.
PID-23=Birth Place	Indicates the location of the patient's birth.
PID-24=Multiple Birth Indicator	Indicates whether the patient was part of a multiple birth.
PID-25=Birth Order	When a patient was part of a multiple birth, a value (number) indicating the patient's birth order is entered in this field.
PID-26=Citizenship	Contains the information related to a person's country citizenship. For country citizenship HL7 recommends using ISO table 3166....  This field repeats since persons can be citizens of more than one country.
PID-27=Veterans Military Status	Contains the military status assigned to a veteran.
PID-28=Nationality 	(n/a - deprecated)
PID-29=Patient Death Date and Time	Contains the date and time at which the patient death occurred.
PID-30=Patient Death Indicator	Indicates whether the patient is deceased.
PID-31=Identity Unknown Indicator	Indicates whether or not the patient's/person's identity is known.
PID-32=Identity Reliability Code	Contains a coded value used to communicate information regarding the reliability of patient/person identifying data transmitted via a transaction.  Values could indicate that certain fields on a PID segment for a given patient/person are known to be false (e.g., use of default or system-generated values for Date of Birth or Social Security Number).
PID-33=Last Update Date/Time	Contains the last update date and time for the patient's/person's identifying and demographic data, as defined in the PID segment….
PID-34=Last Update Facility	Identifies the facility of the last update to a patient's/person's identifying and demographic data, as defined in the PID segment….
PID-35=Taxonomic Classification Code	The species of living organism.  This may include the common or scientific name, based on the coding system(s) used.  SNOMED is the recommended coding system.
PID-36=Breed Code	The specific breed of animal.  This field, unlike Species and Strain is specific to animals and cannot be generally used for all living organisms.  SNOMED is the recommended coding system.
PID-37=Strain	Contains the specific strain of animal.  It can also be expanded to include strain of any living organism and is not restricted to animals.
PID-38=Production Class Code	Contains the code and/or text indicating the primary use for which the living subject was bred or grown.
PID-39=Tribal Citizenship	Contains the information related to a person's tribal citizenship.  For tribal citizenship, in the United States, HL7 recommends using the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) Tribal Identity List.
PID-40=Patient Telecommunication Information	Contains the patient's personal telecommunication contact information.
PRB-01=Action Code	This field contains the intent of the message.
PRB-02=Action Date/Time	This field contains the date/time that the operation represented by the action code was performed
PRB-03=Problem ID	This field identifies the problem. This is the identifier from an institution’s master list of problems.
PRB-04=Problem Instance ID	This field contains the identifier assigned by an initiating system to an instance of a problem.
PRB-05=Episode of Care ID	This field uniquely identifies the episode of care to which this problem applies.
PRB-06=Problem List Priority	This field prioritizes this problem on a list that is maintained for the individual.
PRB-07=Problem Established Date/Time	This field contains the date/time when the corresponding problem was initially identified by the caregiver.
PRB-08=Anticipated Problem Resolution Date/Time	This field contains the estimated date/time for resolving the stated problem.
PRB-09=Actual Problem Resolution Date/Time	This field contains the date/time that the problem was actually resolved.
PRB-10=Problem Classification	This field indicates the kind of problem.  This field can be used to categorize problems so that they may be managed and viewed independently within different applications (e.g., admission, final, post-operative, pre-operative, outpatient, discharge, etc.).
PRB-11=Problem Management Discipline	This field indicates the category of caregiver with responsibility for managing this specific problem (e.g., care team, nursing, medicine, respiratory therapy, occupational therapy, dietary etc.).  This is a repeating field to allow identification of all disciplines who may have the responsibility for this problem.
PRB-12=Problem Persistence	This field contains the perseverance of a problem (e.g., acute, chronic, etc.).
PRB-13=Problem Confirmation Status	This field contains the verification status of a problem (e.g., confirmed, differential, provisional, rule-out, etc.).
PRB-14=Problem Life Cycle Status	This field contains the current status of the problem at this particular date/time (e.g., active, active-improving, active-stable, active-worsening, inactive, resolved, etc.).
PRB-15=Problem Life Cycle Status Date/Time	This field indicates the effective date/time of the current problem life cycle status.
PRB-16=Problem Date of Onset	This field contains the date/time when the problem began.
PRB-17=Problem Onset Text	This field allows for a textual representation of the time when the problem began.
PRB-18=Problem Ranking	This field contains a user-defined prioritization of a problem (e.g., numeric ranking, or the use of words such as “primary,” “secondary,” etc.).
PRB-19=Certainty of Problem	This field contains a qualitative representation of the certainty of a problem (e.g., high, low, medium, etc.)
PRB-20=Probability of Problem (0-1)	This field contains a quantitative or numeric representation of the certainty that the problem exists for this patient.  This field has a valid range of 0 to 1.  For example, a healthcare provider may be 75% (.75) sure that the problem has been correctly identified.
PRB-21=Individual Awareness of Problem	This field contains the individual’s comprehension of the problem (e.g., full, marginal, partial, etc.).
PRB-22=Problem Prognosis	This field contains the prognosis for the individual’s problem (e.g., good, poor, etc.).
PRB-23=Individual Awareness of Prognosis	This field contains the individual’s comprehension of the prognosis for the problem  (e.g., full, marginal, partial, etc.).
PRB-24=Family/Significant Other Awareness of Problem/Prognosis	This field indicates the individual’s family or significant other’s comprehension of the actual problem/prognosis.
PRB-25=Security/Sensitivity	This field contains information about the level of security and/or sensitivity surrounding the problem (e.g., highly sensitive, not sensitive, sensitive, etc.).
PRB-26=Problem Severity	indicates the severity of the Problem.
PRB-27=Problem Perspective	Indicates from whose perspective this problem was identified.
PRB-28=Mood Code	Indicates the Mood of the Problem.  It allows expression of the context of the problem.
PV1-01=Set ID - PV1	Sequence number of patient’s visit being identified. Only one patient visit per message is permitted by this specification.
PV1-02=Patient Class	This field is used by systems to categorize patients by site.  It does not have a consistent industry-wide definition.  It is subject to site specific variations.
PV1-03=Assigned Patient Location	"Condition rule: Required if PV1-2 is ""inpatient.""  Best practice is to populate this field as this may be the only geo-location provided for the patient in this message.
This field contains the patient's initial assigned location or the location to which the patient is being moved.  The first component may be the nursing station for inpatient locations, or clinic or department, for locations other than inpatient.  For canceling a transaction or discharging a patient, the current location (after the cancellation event or before the discharge event) should be in this field."
PV1-04=Admission Type	"Condition rule: Required if PV1-2 is ""inpatient.""
Indicates the circumstances under which the patient was or will be admitted…."
PV1-05=Preadmit Number	Uniquely identifies the patient's pre admit account.  Some systems will continue to use the pre admit number as the billing number after the patient has been admitted.
PV1-06=Prior Patient Location	Contains the prior patient location if the patient is being transferred.  The old location is null if the patient is new.
PV1-07=Attending Doctor	Contains the attending physician information.
PV1-08=Referring Doctor	Contains the referring physician information.
PV1-09=Consulting Doctor	Deprecated as of HL7 Version 2.4
PV1-10=Hospital Service	Contains the treatment or type of surgery that the patient is scheduled to receive.
PV1-11=Temporary Location	Contains a location other than the assigned location required for a temporary period of time (e.g., OR, operating theatre, etc.).
PV1-12=Preadmit Test Indicator	Indicates whether the patient must have pre admission testing done in order to be admitted.
PV1-13=Re-admission Indicator	Indicates that a patient is being re admitted to the healthcare facility and gives the circumstances.  We suggest using "R" for readmission or else null.
PV1-14=Admit Source	Indicates where the patient was admitted. 
PV1-15=Ambulatory Status	Indicates any permanent or transient handicapped conditions.
PV1-16=VIP Indicator	Identifies the type of VIP.
PV1-17=Admitting Doctor	Contains the admitting physician information
PV1-18=Patient Type	Contains site-specific values that identify the patient type
PV1-19=Visit Number	Contains the unique number assigned to each patient visit.
PV1-20=Financial Class	Contains the financial class(es) assigned to the patient for the purpose of identifying sources of reimbursement.
PV1-21=Charge Price Indicator	contains the code used to determine which price schedule is to be used for room and bed charges.
PV1-22=Courtesy Code	Indicates whether the patient will be extended certain special courtesies.
PV1-23=Credit Rating	Contains the user-defined code to determine past credit experience.
PV1-24=Contract Code	Identifies the type of contract entered into by the healthcare facility and the guarantor for the purpose of settling outstanding account balances.
PV1-25=Contract Effective Date	Ccontains the date that the contract is to start or started.
PV1-26=Contract Amount	Contains the amount to be paid by the guarantor each period according to the contract.
PV1-27=Contract Period	Specifies the duration of the contract for user-defined periods.
PV1-28=Interest Code	Indicates the amount of interest that will be charged the guarantor on any outstanding amounts.
PV1-29=Transfer to Bad Debt Code	Indicates that the account was transferred to bad debts and gives the reason.
PV1-30=Transfer to Bad Debt Date	The date that the account was transferred to a bad debt status.
PV1-31=Bad Debt Agency Code	uniquely identifies the bad debt agency to which the account was transferred.  This code is site defined.
PV1-32=Bad Debt Transfer Amount	contains the amount that was transferred to a bad debt status.
PV1-33=Bad Debt Recovery Amount	contains the amount recovered from the guarantor on the account.
PV1-34=Delete Account Indicator	indicates that the account was deleted from the file and gives the reason.
PV1-35=Delete Account Date	the date that the account was deleted from the file.
PV1-36=Discharge Disposition	Contains the disposition of the patient at time of discharge (i.e., discharged to home, expired, etc.).  ...use the Official Uniform Billing (UB) 04 2008 numeric codes found on form locator 17
PV1-37=Discharged to Location	Indicates the healthcare facility to which the patient was discharged and the date.
PV1-38=Diet Type	Indicates a special diet type for a patient.
PV1-39=Servicing Facility	This field is used in a multiple facility environment, e.g., multiple campuses or buildings, to indicate the healthcare facility with which this visit is associated.
PV1-40=Bed Status	Deprecated as of HL7 Version 2.3. See PV1-3, component 5 - Location Status.
PV1-41=Account Status	Contains the account status.
PV1-42=Pending Location	Indicates the point of care, room, bed, healthcare facility ID, and bed status to which the patient may be moved.  The first component may be the nursing station for inpatient locations, or the clinic, department, or home for locations other than inpatient.
PV1-43=Prior Temporary Location	This field is used to reflect the patient's temporary location (such as the operating room/theatre or x-ray) prior to a transfer from a temporary location to an actual location, or from a temporary location to another temporary location. The first component may be the nursing station for inpatient locations, or the clinic, department, or home for locations other than inpatient.
PV1-44=Admit Date/Time	"Date and time patient arrived for services
This field contains the admit date/time.  It is to be used if the event date/time is different than the admit date and time, i.e., a retroactive update.  This field is also used to reflect the date/time of an outpatient/emergency patient registration."
PV1-45=Discharge Date/Time	"Date and time patient services ended
This field contains the discharge date/time.  It is to be used if the event date/time is different than the discharge date and time, that is, a retroactive update.  This field is also used to reflect the date/time of an outpatient/emergency patient discharge."
PV1-46=Current Patient Balance	Contains the visit balance due.
PV1-47=Total Charges	contains the total visit charges.
PV1-48=Total Adjustments	contains the total adjustments for visit.
PV1-49=Total Payments	contains the total payments for visit.
PV1-50=Alternate Visit ID	Contains the alternative, temporary, or pending optional visit ID number to be used if needed.  Multiple alternate identifiers may be sent.
PV1-51=Visit Indicator	Specifies the level on which data are being sent.  It is the indicator used to send data at two levels, visit and account.  HL7 recommends sending an 'A' or no value when the data in the message are at the account level, or 'V' to indicate that the data sent in the message are at the visit level.
PV1-52=Other Healthcare Provider	Deprecated as of HL7 Version 2.3.
PV1-53=Service Episode Description	Contains a brief user-defined description of a Service Episode in or for which the visit occurs.  A Service Episode is the context in which the treatment or management of an arbitrary subset of a Patient’s medical conditions occurs. The definition of the start time, stop time, and included events of a Service Episode is entirely arbitrary; it may include a single outpatient visit or a hospitalization, or extend over significant period of time, e.g., the duration of a pregnancy, or an oncology treatment regimen, or a cardiac episode from infarction through rehabilitation. A Service Episode may involve one or more Healthcare Organizations.
PV1-54=Service Episode Identifier	Contains the identifier of a Service Episode in or for which the visit occurs.
PV2-01=Prior Pending Location	This field is required for cancel pending transfer (A26) messages.  In all other events it is optional.
PV2-02=Accommodation Code	Indicates the specific patient accommodations for this visit.
PV2-03=Admit Reason	Contains the short description of the reason for patient admission.
PV2-04=Transfer Reason	Contains the short description of the reason for a patient location change.
PV2-05=Patient Valuables	Contains the short description of patient valuables checked in during admission.
PV2-06=Patient Valuables Location	Indicates the location of the patient's valuables.
PV2-07=Visit User Code	Further categorizes a patient's visit with respect to an individual institution's needs, and is expected to be site-specific.
PV2-08=Expected Admit Date/Time	Contains the date and time that the patient is expected to be admitted.  This field is also used to reflect the date/time of an outpatient/emergency patient registration.
PV2-09=Expected Discharge Date/Time	Contains the date and time that the patient is expected to be discharged.  This is a non-event related date used by ancillaries to determine more accurately the projected workloads.  This field is also used to reflect the anticipated discharge date/time of an outpatient/emergency patient, or an inpatient.
PV2-10=Estimated Length of Inpatient Stay	Specifies the estimated days of inpatient stays.
PV2-11=Actual Length of Inpatient Stay	Contains the actual days of inpatient stays.  The actual length of the inpatient stay may not be calculated from the admission and discharge dates because of possible leaves of absence.
PV2-12=Visit Description	Contains a brief user-defined description of the visit.
PV2-13=Referral Source Code	Contains the name and the identification numbers of the person or organization that made the referral.  This person/organization is not the same as the referring doctor.  For example, Adam Everyman referred me to the Clinic (or to Dr. Everywoman at the Clinic).
PV2-14=Previous Service Date	Contains the date of previous service for the same recurring condition. This may be a required field for billing certain illnesses (e.g., accident related) to a third party.
PV2-15=Employment Illness Related Indicator	Specifies whether a patient's illness was job-related.
PV2-16=Purge Status Code	Contains the purge status code for the account.  It is used by the application program to determine purge processing.
PV2-17=Purge Status Date	Contains the date on which the data will be purged from the system.
PV2-18=Special Program Code	Designates the specific health insurance program for a visit required for healthcare reimbursement.
PV2-19=Retention Indicator	This field allows the user to control the financial and demographic purge processes at the visit.  It is used to preserve demographic and financial data on specific, high priority visits.
PV2-20=Expected Number of Insurance Plans	Contains the number of insurance plans that may provide coverage for this visit.
PV2-21=Visit Publicity Code	Contains a user-defined code indicating what level of publicity is allowed for a specific visit.
PV2-22=Visit Protection Indicator	This field identifies the person's protection that determines, in turn, whether access to information about this person should be kept from users who do not have adequate authority for a specific visit.
PV2-23=Clinic Organization Name	Contains the organization name or sub-unit and identifier that is associated with the (visit) episode of care.  For example, the Allergy or Oncology Clinic within the healthcare facility might be named.
PV2-24=Patient Status Code	Indicates the status of the episode of care.
PV2-25=Visit Priority Code	Contains the priority of the visit.
PV2-26=Previous Treatment Date	Contains the date that the patient last had treatment for any condition prior to this visit.  In the case of a prior hospital visit, it is likely to be the previous discharge date.
PV2-27=Expected Discharge Disposition	Describes what the patient's disposition is expected to be at the end of the visit.
PV2-28=Signature on File Date	Contains the date on which a signature was obtained for insurance billing purposes.
PV2-29=First Similar Illness Date	This field is used to determine if the patient has a pre-existing condition.
PV2-30=Patient Charge Adjustment Code	Contains a user-defined code that indicates which adjustments should be made to this patient's charges.
PV2-31=Recurring Service Code	Indicates whether the treatment is continuous.
PV2-32=Billing Media Code	Indicates if the account is to be rejected from tape billing.
PV2-33=Expected Surgery Date and Time	Contains the date and time on which the surgery is expected to occur.
PV2-34=Military Partnership Code	Indicates that a military healthcare facility has contracted with a non-military healthcare facility for the use of its services.
PV2-35=Military Non-Availability Code	Indicates whether a patient has permission to use a non-military healthcare facility for treatment.
PV2-36=Newborn Baby Indicator	Indicates whether the patient is a baby.
PV2-37=Baby Detained Indicator	Indicates if the baby is detained after the mother's discharge.
PV2-38=Mode of Arrival Code	Identifies how the patient was brought to the healthcare facility.
PV2-39=Recreational Drug Use Code	Indicates what recreational drugs the patient uses.  It is used for the purpose of room assignment.
PV2-40=Admission Level of Care Code	Indicates the acuity level assigned to the patient at the time of admission.
PV2-41=Precaution Code	Indicates non-clinical precautions that need to be taken with the patient.
PV2-42=Patient Condition Code	Indicates the patient's current medical condition for the purpose of communicating to non-medical outside parties, e.g., family, employer, religious minister, media, etc.
PV2-43=Living Will Code	Indicates whether or not the patient has a living will and, if so, whether a copy of the living will is on file at the healthcare facility.  If the patient does not have a living will, the value of this field indicates whether the patient was provided information on living wills.
PV2-44=Organ Donor Code	Indicates whether the patient wants to donate his/her organs and whether an organ donor card or similar documentation is on file with the healthcare organization.
PV2-45=Advance Directive Code	Indicates the patient's instructions to the healthcare facility.
PV2-46=Patient Status Effective Date	Indicates the effective date for PV2-24 - Patient Status.
PV2-47=Expected LOA Return Date/Time	contains the date/time that the patient is expected to return from LOA.
PV2-48=Expected Pre-admission Testing Date/Time	Contains the date/time that the patient is expected for pre-admission testing.
PV2-49=Notify Clergy Code	This field allows the user to indicate whether the clergy should be notified.
PV2-50=Advance Directive Last Verified Date	The date that all the advance directives held in PV2-45 - Advance Directive Code were last verified.
RXA-01=Give Sub-ID Counter	Use this field if matching this RXA segment to its corresponding RXG segment.
RXA-02=Administration Sub-ID Counter	This field starts with 1 the first time that medication/treatment is administered for this order.  Increments by one with each additional administration of the medication/treatment.
RXA-03=Date/Time Start of Administration	If the order is for a continuous administration (such as an IV), and the rate is changed at a certain time after the start, an RAS message can be issued to record the change.  For such an RAS message, this field records the time the rate was changed to the new value recorded in the RXA-12-Administered Per (time unit) of the same message.
RXA-04=Date/Time End of Administration	If null, the date/time of RXA-3-Date/Time Start of Administration is assumed.
RXA-05=Administered Code	Contains the identifier of the medical substance/treatment administered....  If the substance administered is a vaccine, CVX codes may be used to code this field....
RXA-06=Administered Amount	Contains the amount administered.
RXA-07=Administered Units	This field is conditional because it is required if the administered amount code does not imply units.  This field must be in simple units that reflect the actual quantity of the substance administered.  It does not include compound units.
RXA-08=Administered Dosage Form	Indicates the manner in which the medication/treatment is aggregated for dispensing, e.g., tablets, capsules, suppositories.
RXA-09=Administration Notes	Contains notes from the provider administering the medication/treatment.
RXA-10=Administering Provider	Contains the provider ID of the person administering the pharmaceutical/treatment.
RXA-11=Administered-at Location	Contains the inpatient or outpatient location at which the drug or treatment was administered (if applicable).
RXA-12=Administered Per (Time Unit)	Contains the rate at which this medication/treatment was administered as calculated by using RXA-6-administered amount and RXA-7-administered units.  This field is conditional because it is required when a treatment is administered continuously at a prescribed rate, e.g., certain IV solutions.
RXA-13=Administered Strength	Use when RXA-5-Administered Code does not specify the strength.  This is the numeric part of the strength, used in combination with RXA-14-Administered Strength Units.
RXA-14=Administered Strength Units	Use when RXA-5-Administered Code does not specify the strength.  This is the unit of the strength, used in combination with RXA-13-Administered Strength.
RXA-15=Substance Lot Number	Contains the lot number of the medical substance administered.
RXA-16=Substance Expiration Date	Contains the expiration date of the medical substance administered.
RXA-17=Substance Manufacturer Name	Contains the manufacturer of the medical substance administered.
RXA-18=Substance/Treatment Refusal Reason	Contains the reason the patient refused the medical substance/treatment.  Any entry in the field indicates that the patient did not take the substance.
RXA-19=Indication	Contains the identifier of the condition or problem for which the drug/treatment was prescribed.  May repeat if multiple indications are relevant.
RXA-20=Completion Status	Status of treatment administration event.  Refer to HL7 Table 0322 - Completion Status in Chapter 2C for valid values.
RXA-21=Action Code - RXA	Status of record. The information in this field enables the use of the RXA in the vaccine messages… where a method of correcting vaccination information transmitted with incorrect patient identifying information is needed.
RXA-22=System Entry Date/Time	Date/time the administration information was entered into the source system.  This field is used to detect instances where treatment administration information is inadvertently entered multiple times by providing a unique identification field.  Under usual circumstances, this field would be provided automatically by the computer system rather than being entered by a person.
RXA-23=Administered Drug Strength Volume	Defines the volume measurement in which the drug strength concentration is contained. For example, Acetaminophen 120 MG/5ML Elixir means that 120 MG of the drug is in a solution with a volume of 5 ML, (this field contains 5)
RXA-24=Administered Drug Strength Volume Units	Indicates the volumetric unit associated (with the volume measurement in which the drug strength concentration is contained. For example, Acetaminophen 120 MG/5ML Elixir means that 120 MG of the drug is in a solution with a volume of 5 ML, this field contains ML)
RXA-25=Administered Barcode Identifier	This field contains the pharmacy system's assigned barcode number for the give occurrence.  For IV orders, many pharmacy systems generate a barcode number to identify a specific bag/bottle of the order. This number can be an instance identifier; unique for the patient, drug combination, and schedule instance or it may be just a drug identifier.
RXA-26=Pharmacy Order Type	Defines the general category of pharmacy order which may be used to determine the processing path the order will take....  This field may also be used for grouping of related orders for processing and/or reports.  For example, Medication Administration Records often group large volume solutions, medications and small volume solutions differently based upon site-specific workflow.
RXA-27=Administer-at	Specifies the location where the drug or treatment was administered.
RXA-28=Administered-at Address	Specifies the address of the location where the drug or treatment was administered.
RXA-29=Administration Tag Identifier	Contains an identifier for the individual product instance for the dispense occurrence.  This may represent a barcode, RFID or other means of automatically-readable product instance.  Repetitions represent the same instance where more than one barcode, RFID or other identification is present.
RXD-01=Dispense Sub-ID Counter	This field starts with 1 the first time that medication/treatment is delivered/dispensed for this order.  Increments by one with each additional issuance.
RXD-02=Dispense/Give Code	Identifies the medical substance or treatment ordered to be given to the patient; it is equivalent to OBR-4-Universal Service ID.
RXD-03=Date/Time Dispensed	Indicates when the pharmaceutical/treatment is dispensed from the pharmacy or treatment supplier.
RXD-04=Actual Dispense Amount	Indicates the amount dispensed.
RXD-05=Actual Dispense Units	Indicates the units dispensed…. This field is required if the units are not implied by the actual dispense code.  If present, it overrides units implied by the actual dispense code.
RXD-06=Actual Dosage Form	Indicates the manner in which the medication/treatment is aggregated for dispensing, e.g., tablets, capsules, suppositories.  In some cases, this information is implied by the dispense/give code in RXD-2-dispense/give code.  Use this field when the give code and the dispense code do not specify the dosage form.
RXD-07=Prescription Number	This field is equivalent in uniqueness to the pharmacy/treatment supplier filler order number.  At some sites, this may be the pharmacy/treatment supplier (internal) sequential form.  At other sites, this may be an external number.
RXD-08=Number of Refills Remaining	This field is conditional because it is required when a prescription is dispensed to an outpatient. It is not relevant to inpatient treatment orders.
RXD-09=Dispense Notes	Contains free text notes to the person dispensing the medication/treatment (may include the ordering provider's original notes, as well as any notes from the formulary or the pharmacy or treatment supplier).  This may contain free text describing a custom IV, mixture, or salve for example.
RXD-10=Dispensing Provider	Contains the provider ID of the person dispensing the pharmaceutical.
RXD-11=Substitution Status	Refer to HL7 Table 0167 - Substitution Status in Chapter 2C for suggested values.
RXD-12=Total Daily Dose	Contains the total daily dose being dispensed as expressed in terms of the actual dispense units.
RXD-13=Dispense-to Location	Contains the inpatient or outpatient location where the drug or treatment was dispensed (if applicable).  The default (null) value is the current census location for the patient.
RXD-14=Needs Human Review	Indicates that a warning is present.  The application receiving the dispense order needs to warn the person dispensing/administering the drug or treatment to pay attention to the text in RXD-15-pharmacy/treatment supplier's special dispensing instructions.
RXD-15=Pharmacy/Treatment Supplier's Special Dispensing Instructions	Contains pharmacy or treatment supplier-generated special instructions to the provider dispensing/administering the order.
RXD-16=Actual Strength	Use when RXD-2-Dispense/Give Code does not specify the strength.  This is the numeric part of the strength, of a single dosage unit of the dispensed product
RXD-17=Actual Strength Unit	Use when RXD-2-Dispense/Give Code does not specify the strength.  This is the unit of the strength, of a single dosage unit of the dispensed product
RXD-18=Substance Lot Number	Contains the lot number of the medical substance administered.
RXD-19=Substance Expiration Date	Contains the expiration date of the medical substance administered.
RXD-20=Substance Manufacturer Name	Contains the manufacturer of the medical substance administered when it is a manufactured substance.
RXD-21=Indication	Contains the identifier of the condition or problem for which the drug/treatment was prescribed.  May repeat if multiple indications are relevant.
RXD-22=Dispense Package Size	Contains the size of package to be dispensed.
RXD-23=Dispense Package Size Unit	contains the units in which RXE-28-dispense package size is denominated.  The advertised number of units in the manufacturer's package, i.e., the package as it comes from the supplier.
RXD-24=Dispense Package Method	Contains the method by which treatment is dispensed.
RXD-25=Supplementary Code	This field accommodates the identification of any codes that might be associated with the pharmaceutical substance. Common codes include: the Generic Product Identifier (GPI), Generic Code Number_Sequence Number (GCN_SEQNO), National Drug Code (NDC).
RXD-26=Initiating Location	Identifies the pharmacy or other treatment dispensing service (e.g., respiratory) that received the initial request.
RXD-27=Packaging/Assembly Location	Identifies the pharmacy which packaged/assembled request.
RXD-28=Actual Drug Strength Volume	
RXD-29=Actual Drug Strength Volume Units	
RXD-30=Dispense to Pharmacy	Specifies the pharmacy that will dispense or has dispensed the prescription.
RXD-31=Dispense to Pharmacy Address	Specifies the address of the dispensing facility or the patient's location where the dispensing will occur.
RXD-32=Pharmacy Order Type	Defines the general category of pharmacy order which may be used to determine the processing path the order will take....  This field may also be used for grouping of related orders for processing and/or reports.  For example, Medication Administration Records often group large volume solutions, medications and small volume solutions differently based upon site-specific workflow.
RXD-33=Dispense Type	This is the type of dispensing event that occurred.
RXD-34=Pharmacy Phone Number	Contains the telecommunication contact information for the pharmacy.
RXD-35=Dispense Tag Identifier	contains an identifier for the individual product instance for the dispense occurrence.  This may represent a barcode, RFID or other means of automatically-readable product instance.  Repetitions represent the same instance where more than one barcode, RFID or other identification is present.
RXO-01=Requested Give Code	Identifies the treatment product or treatment ordered to be given to the patient.... Examples ... include medications and certain devices or supplies, e.g., inhaler spacers, blood glucose monitors, syringes, infusion sets, which might require prescription.
RXO-02=Requested Give Amount - Minimum	This field is the ordered amount.  In a variable dose order, this is the minimum ordered amount.  In a non-varying dose order, this is the exact amount of the order.
RXO-03=Requested Give Amount - Maximum	In a variable dose order, this is the maximum ordered amount.  In a non-varying dose order, this field is not used.
RXO-04=Requested Give Units	Indicates the units for the give amount.
RXO-05=Requested Dosage Form	Indicates the manner in which the treatment is aggregated for dispensing, e.g., tablets, capsules, suppositories.
RXO-06=Provider's Pharmacy/Treatment Instructions	Identifies the ordering provider's instructions to the pharmacy or the non-pharmacy treatment provider (e.g., respiratory therapy).
RXO-07=Provider's Administration Instructions	Identifies the ordering provider's instructions to the patient or to the provider administering the drug or treatment.
RXO-08=Deliver-To Location	n/a - deprecated
RXO-09=Allow Substitutions	
RXO-10=Requested Dispense Code	Indicates what is to be/was dispensed
RXO-11=Requested Dispense Amount	Specifies the amount to be dispensed.
RXO-12=Requested Dispense Units	Identifies the units for the dispense amount.
RXO-13=Number Of Refills	Defines the number of times the requested dispense amount can be given to the patient, subject to local regulation.  Refers to outpatient only.
RXO-14=Ordering Provider's DEA Number	Identifies the provider's controlled substance number, if required, by site.
RXO-15=Pharmacist/Treatment Supplier's Verifier ID	The provider ID of the pharmacist/treatment supplier verifier.
RXO-16=Needs Human Review	Indicates whether the pharmacist or non-pharmacist treatment supplier filling the order needs to pay special attention to the text in the [Dispensing Instructions].  A warning is present.
RXO-17=Requested Give Per (Time Unit)	Identifies the time unit to use to calculate the rate at which the pharmaceutical is to be administered.
RXO-18=Requested Give Strength	This is the numeric part of the strength, used in combination with RXO-19-requested give strength units.
RXO-19=Requested Give Strength Units	This is the unit of the strength, used in combination with RXO-18-requested give strength.
RXO-20=Indication	Identifies the condition or problem for which the drug/treatment was prescribed.
RXO-21=Requested Give Rate Amount	Contains the rate at which to administer a treatment, e.g., 150 ml/hr (for an IV) or 4 liters/min for nasal oxygen.
RXO-22=Requested Give Rate Units	Contains the units in which RXO-21-requested give rate amount is denominated.
RXO-23=Total Daily Dose	Contains the total daily dose for this particular pharmaceutical as expressed in terms of actual dispense units.
RXO-24=Supplementary Code	This field accommodates the identification of any codes that might be associated with the pharmaceutical substance. Common codes include: the Generic Product Identifier (GPI), Generic Code Number_Sequence Number (GCN_SEQNO), National Drug Code (NDC).
RXO-25=Requested Drug Strength Volume	Defines the volume measurement in which the drug strength concentration is contained. For example, Acetaminophen 120 MG/5ML Elixir means that 120 MG of the drug is in a solution with a volume of 5 ML.
RXO-26=Requested Drug Strength Volume Units	Indicates the volumetric unit associated with RXO-25 Requested Drug Strength Volume.
RXO-27=Pharmacy Order Type	Defines the general category of pharmacy order which may be used to determine the processing path the order will take....  This field may also be used for grouping of related orders for processing and/or reports.  For example, Medication Administration Records (MARs) often group large volume solutions, medications and small volume solutions differently based upon site-specific workflow.
RXO-28=Dispensing Interval	Specifies the minimum number of days that must occur between dispensing events
RXO-29=Medication Instance Identifier	Contains a value that uniquely identifies the medication associated with this segment.  Rather than identifying the product to be given, as in RXO-1 Requested Give Code, this field serves to identify the medication in association with the order represented by the segment instance.  This identifier is persistent within and across message instances.
RXO-30=Segment Instance Identifier	Contains a value that uniquely identifies this segment across time and messages.  This is not intended as a "Set ID", but as a unique identifier allowing references not only to segments of the same  message, but also to segments of other messages and indirectly to the entities described in those segments if the necessary persistence was manageable by the applications.  This identifier is persistent within and across message instances.
RXO-31=Mood Code	Represents the functional state of the order represented by this segment instance.
RXO-32=Dispensing Pharmacy	Specifies the pharmacy that will dispense or has dispensed the prescription.
RXO-33=Dispensing Pharmacy Address	Specifies the address of the dispensing facility.
RXO-34=Deliver-to Patient Location	Specifies the location of the patient to whom the pharmaceutical substance is to be delivered.
RXO-35=Deliver-to Address	Specifies the address, either mailing or physical, to which the prescription should be mailed or delivered.
RXO-36=Pharmacy Phone Number	Contains the telecommunication contact information for the pharmacy.
RXR-01=Route	This field is the route of administration.
RXR-02=Administration Site	Contains the site of the administration route.  When using a post-coordinated code table in this field, (the Adminstration Site Modifier) may be used to modify the meaning of this field.
RXR-03=Administration Device	Contains the mechanical device used to aid in the administration of the drug or other treatment.  Common examples are IV-sets of different types.
RXR-04=Administration Method	Identifies the specific method requested for the administration of the drug or treatment to the patient.
RXR-05=Routing Instruction	Provides instruction on administration routing, especially in cases where more than one route of administration is possible. A typical case would be designating which IV line should be used when more than one IV line is a possible route for injection.
RXR-06=Administration Site Modifier	Contains a modifier which modifies the meaning of (the Adminstration Site code)
SAC-01=External Accession Identifier	
SAC-02=Accession Identifier	
SAC-03=Container Identifier	The container's unique identifier assigned by the corresponding equipment….
SAC-04=Primary (Parent) Container Identifier	
SAC-05=Equipment Container Identifier	
SAC-06=Specimen Source	
SAC-07=Registration Date/Time	
SAC-08=Container Status	
SAC-09=Carrier Type	
SAC-10=Carrier Identifier	
SAC-11=Position in Carrier 	
SAC-12=Tray Type – SAC	
SAC-13=Tray Identifier	
SAC-14=Position in Tray 	
SAC-15=Location	
SAC-16=Container Height	Identifies the height of the container in units specified below [in SAC-24].
SAC-17=Container Diameter	Identifies the outside diameter of the container in units specified below [in SAC-24].
SAC-18=Barrier Delta	Identifies the distance from the Point of Reference to the separator material (barrier) within the container in units specified below. This distance may be provided by the LAS to the instrument and/or specimen processing/handling device to facilitate the insertion of a sampling probe into the specimen without touching the separator.
SAC-19=Bottom Delta	Identifies the distance from the Point of Reference to the outside bottom of the container in units specified [in SAC-24]
SAC-20=Container Height/Diameter/Delta Units	
SAC-21=Container Volume	Indicates the capacity of the container in the units specified below [in SAC-24].
SAC-22=Available Specimen Volume	
SAC-23=Initial Specimen Volume	
SAC-24=Volume Units	The unit identifier that is being used to describe the volume of the container. If the units are ISO+ units, they should be recorded as single case abbreviations. The default unit is milliliters (ml), which should be assumed if no units are reported.
SAC-25=Separator Type	Identifies the type of the separator that is being used (e.g., gel separator in the container…)
SAC-26=Cap Type	Indicates the type of cap that is to be used with this container for decapping, piercing or other mechanisms.
SAC-27=Additive	
SAC-28=Specimen Component	
SAC-29=Dilution Factor	
SAC-30=Treatment	
SAC-31=Temperature	Identifies the specimen temperature in degrees Celsius
SAC-32=Hemolysis Index	
SAC-33=Hemolysis Index Units	
SAC-34=Lipemia Index	
SAC-35=Lipemia Index Units	
SAC-36=Icterus Index	
SAC-37=Icterus Index Units	
SAC-38=Fibrin Index	
SAC-39=Fibrin Index Units	
SAC-40=System Induced Contaminants	
SAC-41=Drug Interference	
SAC-42=Artificial Blood	
SAC-43=Special Handling Code	
SAC-44=Other Environmental Factors	
SPM-01=Set ID - SPM	Contains the sequence number.  This field is used to identify SPM segment instances in message structures where the SPM segment repeats.
SPM-02=Specimen ID 	Unique identifier for the specimen as referenced by the Placer application, the Filler application, or both.
SPM-03=Specimen Parent IDs	Contains the identifiers for the specimen or specimens that contributed to the specimen that is described by the segment instance.
SPM-04=Specimen Type 	Describes the precise nature of the entity that will be the source material for the observation.  Any physical entity that may have observations made about it may qualify as a specimen.  The entry in this attribute describes the specific entity as precisely as possible, whether that is a complex organism (e.g., an ostrich) or a specific cellular mass (e.g., a specific muscle biopsy).
SPM-05=Specimen Type Modifier	Contains modifying or qualifying description(s) about the specimen type
SPM-06=Specimen Additives	Identifies any additives introduced to the specimen before or at the time of collection.  These additives may be introduced in order to preserve, maintain or enhance the particular nature or component of the specimen.
SPM-07=Specimen Collection Method 	Describes the procedure or process by which the specimen was collected.
SPM-08=Specimen Source Site	Specifies the source from which the specimen was obtained.  For example, in the case where a liver biopsy is obtained via a percutaneous needle, the source would be Liver.
SPM-09=Specimen Source Site Modifier	Contains modifying or qualifying description(s) about the specimen source site.
SPM-10=Specimen Collection Site	This field differs from [Specimen Source Site] in those cases where the source site must be approached via a particular site (e.g., anatomic location).
SPM-11=Specimen Role	Indicates the role of the sample.
SPM-12=Specimen Collection Amount	Specifies the volume or mass of the collected specimen.
SPM-13=Grouped Specimen Count	The number of individual specimens of a particular type represented by this instance of a specimen.
SPM-14=Specimen Description 	A text field that allows additional information specifically about the specimen
SPM-15=Specimen Handling Code 	Describes how the specimen and/or container need to be handled from the time of collection through the initiation of testing.
SPM-16=Specimen Risk Code	Contains any known or suspected specimen hazards, e.g., exceptionally infectious agent or blood from a hepatitis patient.
SPM-17=Specimen Collection Date/Time 	The date and time when the specimen was acquired from the source.  The use of the Date Range data type allows for description of specimens collected over a period of time, for example, 24-hour urine collection.  For specimens collected at a point in time, only the first component (start date/time) will be populated.
SPM-18=Specimen Received Date/Time	The time that the specimen is received at the diagnostic service.  The actual time that is recorded is based on how specimen receipt is managed and may correspond to the time the sample is logged in.
SPM-19=Specimen Expiration Date/Time	The date and time the specimen can no longer be used for the purpose implied by the order....
SPM-20=Specimen Availability	Describes whether the specimen, as it exists, is currently available to use in an analysis.
SPM-21=Specimen Reject Reason	Describes one or more reasons the specimen is rejected for the specified observation/result/analysis.
SPM-22=Specimen Quality 	The degree or grade of excellence of the specimen at receipt.
SPM-23=Specimen Appropriateness 	The suitability of the specimen for the particular planned use as determined by the filler.
SPM-24=Specimen Condition 	A mode or state of being that describes the nature of the specimen.
SPM-25=Specimen Current Quantity 	The amount of specimen that currently exists or is available for use in further testing.
SPM-26=Number of Specimen Containers	The number of containers for a given sample.  For sample receipt verification purposes; may be different from the total number of samples that accompany the order.
SPM-27=Container Type 	The container in or on which a specimen is transported.
SPM-28=Container Condition	In chain of custody cases where specimens are moved from lab to lab, the status of the container that the specimen is shipped in must be recorded at each receipt.  If the container is compromised in any way (seal broken, container cracked or leaking, etc) then this needs to be recorded for legal reasons.
SPM-29=Specimen Child Role 	For child specimens, this field identifies the relationship between this specimen and the parent specimen.
SPM-30=Accession ID	This field contains accession identifier(s) associated with the specimen....
SPM-31=Other Specimen ID	Contains other identifier(s) for the specimen ... in addition to those identified in [SPM-2, Specimen ID].  In may cases other applications involved in the collection, transportation or testing of the specimen will assign additional specimen identifiers.
SPM-32=Shipment ID	The identifier assigned by the shipment transportation provider that uniquely identifies this shipment from all other shipments by the same provider.  The addressee for the shipment should be able to use this identifier to match a physical shipment with the electronic manifest for the shipment.
TQM-01=Set ID - TQ1	For the first timing specification transmitted, the sequence number shall be 1; for the second timing specification, it shall be 2; and so on.
TQM-02=Quantity	Specifies the numeric quantity of the service that should be provided at each service interval.
TQM-03=Repeat Pattern	The repeating frequency with which the treatment is to be administered.  It is similar to the frequency and SIG code tables used in order entry systems.
TQM-04=Explicit Time	This field explicitly lists the actual times referenced by the code in TQ1-3
TQM-05=Relative Time and Units	used to define the interval between schedules for service request or bottle records.
TQM-06=Service Duration	Contains the duration for which the service is requested.
TQM-07=Start date/time	Indicates the earliest date/time at which the services should be started.
TQM-08=End date/time	Contain(s) the latest date/time that the service should be performed.  If it has not been performed by the specified time, it should not be performed at all.
TQM-09=Priority	Describes the urgency of the request. If this field is blank, the default is [Routine].
TQM-10=Condition text	Describes the conditions under which the drug is to be given.  For example, "PRN pain," or "to keep blood pressure below 110."  The presence of text in this field should be taken to mean that human review is needed to determine the how and/or when this drug should be given.
TQM-11=Text instruction	A full text version of the instruction (optional).
TQM-12=Conjunction	Indicates that a second TQ1 segment is to follow.
TQM-13=Occurrence duration	Contains the duration for which a single performance of a service is requested.
TQM-14=Total occurrences	Contains the total number of occurrences of a service that should result from this service request.